[DOC] Document Tempo Operator Monolithic mode (#3474)
grafana/tempo: docs/sources/tempo/setup/operator/monolithic.md

---
title: Monolithic deployment
description: Set up a Tempo deployment in monolithic mode
menuTitle: Monolithic deployment
weight: 500
aliases:
- /docs/tempo/operator/monolithic
---

# Monolithic deployment

> The `TempoMonolithic` Custom Resource (CR) creates a Tempo deployment in [Monolithic mode](/docs/tempo/latest/setup/deployment/#monolithic-mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TempoMonolithic` Custom Resource (CR) creates a Tempo deployment in [Monolithic mode](https:grafana.com/docs/tempo/<TEMPO_VERSION>/setup/deployment/#monolithic-mode).
```

In this mode, all components of the Tempo deployment (compactor, distributor, ingester, querier and query-frontend) are contained in a single container.

This type of deployment is ideal for small deployments, demo and test setups, and supports storing traces in memory, in a Persistent Volume and in object storage.

> **Note:** The monolithic deployment of Tempo does not scale horizontally. If you require horizontal scaling, please use the `TempoStack` CR for a Tempo deployment in [Microservices mode](/docs/tempo/latest/setup/deployment/#microservices-mode).
> 

Reviewer: You can use the [admonition shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#admonition) to format these notes. 

We also changed how we're doing links recently. While the links you have will work, you can also now use the full URL, just like you would for regular Markdown: `[link text](http://grafana.com/stuff/here]`. When a link goes to a versioned product like Tempo, we're replacing /latest with something like <TEMPO_VERSION>. This allows the URL to be adapted if a page is backported for a previous version, for example. The link would go to the correct version of that page instead of to /latest/. For more information: https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/links/

```suggestion
{{< admonition type="note" >}}
The monolithic deployment of Tempo does not scale horizontally. If you require horizontal scaling, please use the `TempoStack` CR for a Tempo deployment in [Microservices mode](https://grafana.com/docs/tempo/<TEMPO_VERSION>/setup/deployment/#microservices-mode).
{{< /admonition >}}
```

Author: Thank you, I'll use that format next time.

## Quickstart

The following manifest creates a Tempo monolithic deployment with trace ingestion over OTLP/gRPC and OTLP/HTTP, storing traces in a 2 GiB tmpfs volume (in-memory storage).

```yaml
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoMonolithic
metadata:
  name: sample
spec:
  storage:
    traces:
      backend: memory
      size: 2Gi
```

Once the pod is ready, you can send traces to `tempo-sample:4317` (OTLP/gRPC) and `tempo-sample:4318` (OTLP/HTTP) inside the cluster.

To configure a Grafana data source, use the URL `http://tempo-sample:3200` (available inside the cluster).

## CRD Specification
A manifest with all available configuration options is available here: [tempo.grafana.com_tempomonolithics.yaml](https://github.com/grafana/tempo-operator/blob/main/docs/spec/tempo.grafana.com_tempomonolithics.yaml).

> **Note: This file is auto-generated and does not constitute a valid CR**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< admonition type="note" >}}
This file is auto-generated and does not constitute a valid CR.
{{< /admonition >}}
```
